Ada Lovelace
English mathematician, 'first computer programmer', published an algorithm for
a theoretical computer designed by Charles Babbage.

Grace Hopper
USN admiral, proposed the development of a programming language that would use
English words, created first 'link-loader', translating English code into
machine code, developing FLOW-MATIC, which led to COBOL. Credited with
popularizing 'debugging' after her team found a literal bug inside a computer.

Adele Goldstine
US mathematician. Wrote manual for first programmable electronic digital computer ENIAC and a
pioneer in the idea of stored instructions as opposed to reprogramming a
computer for each task.

Alan Turing
English mathematician. Father of theoretical computer science and AI. WWII
codebreaker. Developed Turing machine, capable of running any computer
algorithm, the model of a general-purpose computer.

Charles Babbage
English mathematician. Originated the concept of a digital programmable computer
. Inventor of first mechanical computer, developer of Analytical Engine, which
contains the ideas cemented in modern computers.

Abdullah Muhammad bin Musa al-Khwarizmi
Perian, 8-9th C. 'Father' of algebra and the algorithm; binary mathematics used
in computing is based on his algorithmic modules.

John Atanasoff
US physicist, invetor of first electronic digital computer

Lois Haibt
American computer scientist and a developer of FORTRAN, the first successful
high-level computer language.

Claude Shannon
American mathematician, father of information theory. Designed switching
circuits, the foundation of electronic digital computing and circuit design.

Steve Jobs
Founder of Apple and inventor of apple computer, pioneer in personal computing
and using a closed architecture, more marketing than design.

Bill Gates
Created first OS for IBM PC, DOS and later Windows based on DOS.

Tim Berners-Lee
English computer scientist, inventor of WWW.  Invented hypertext and matched
it with TCP and DNS to create the web. Published the first website, designed and
 built first web browser and first web server.

Steve Wozniak
Computer engineer, cofounder of Apple and pioneer in personal computing. The
inventor Apple I and II and helped design Macintosh.

Konrad Zuse
German computer scientist. 'inventor of modern computer' developed first
programmable computer (Z3).

Sir Antony Hoare
British computer scientist. Major contributions to programming. Invented
quicksort.

Marvin Minsky
US computer scientist. Major AI researcher.

Yukihiro Matsumoto
Japanese computer scientist. Chief designer of Ruby language and original
implementation (MRI).

Hayyim Slonimski
Hebrew mathematician. Invented a calculating machine in 1844.

Gertrude Blanch
US mathematician. Pioneer in algorithm design for human and mechanical computers
.